feat: Introduce Organization Domains (#365)
clerkinc/clerk-docs: docs/references/javascript/organization-domain.mdx

---
title: OrganizationDomain
description: The OrganizationDomain object is the model around an organization domain.
---

# `OrganizationDomain`

The `OrganizationDomain` object is the model around an organization domain.

## Attributes

> <Tables

Reviewer: Because there are no complex components being used inside the table, let's opt for a markdown table so that it is more readable. `<Table />` components are reserved for more complex tables that involve component usage.

Instead, we can write:

| Name | Type | Description |
| --- | --- | --- |
| `id` | `string` | A unique identifier for this organization domain. |

    headings={["Name", "Type", "Description"]}
    headingsMeta={[{maxWidth: '300px'}, {maxWidth: '300px'}, {maxWidth: '300px'}]}
    rows={[
        {
            cells: [
                <code>id</code>,
                <code>string</code>,
                "A unique identifier for this organization domain.",
            ]
        },
        {
            cells: [
                <code>name</code>,
                <code>string</code>,
                "The name for this organization domain (e.g example.com).",
            ]
        },
        {
            cells: [
                <code>organizationId</code>,
                <code>string</code>,
                "The organization ID of the organization this domain is for.",
            ]
        },
        {

>             cells: [
>                 <code>enrollmentMode</code>,
>                 <code>'manual_invitation' | 'automatic_invitation' | 'automatic_suggestion'</code>,
>                 "The organization ID of the organization this domain is for.",

Reviewer: Incorrect copy here 

```suggestion
            cells: [
                <code>enrollmentMode</code>,
                <code>'manual_invitation' | 'automatic_invitation' | 'automatic_suggestion'</code>,
                "The mode in which a domain should operate under.",

```

            ]
        },
        {
            cells: [
                <code>verification</code>,
                <code><a href="#organization-domain-verification">OrganizationDomainVerification</a></code>,

>                 "The organization ID of the organization this domain is for.",

Reviewer: Incorrect copy

```suggestion
                "<Insert correct copy>",

```

            ]
        },
        {
            cells: [
                <code>affiliationEmailAddress</code>,
                <code>string | null</code>,

>                 "The email address that was used to verify this organization domain organization.",

Reviewer: ```suggestion
                "The email address that was used to verify this organization domain.",

```

            ]
        },
        {
            cells: [
                <code>totalPendingInvitations</code>,
                <code>number</code>,
                "The number of total pending invitations sent to emails that match the domain name.",
            ]
        },
        {
            cells: [
                <code>totalPendingSuggestions</code>,
                <code>number</code>,
                "The number of total pending suggestions sent to emails that match the domain name.",
            ]
        },
        {
            cells: [
                <code>createdAt</code>,
                <code>Date</code>,

>                 "Date of the time the membership was created.",

Reviewer: ```suggestion
                "The date of when the organization domain was created.",

```

            ]
        },
        {
            cells: [
                <code>updatedAt</code>,
                <code>Date</code>,

>                 "Date of the last time the membership was updated.",

Reviewer: ```suggestion
                "The date of the last time the organization domain was updated.",

```

            ]
        },
    ]}
/>

### `OrganizationDomainVerification`

| Name | Type | Description |
| --- | --- | --- |
| `status` | `'unverified' \| 'verified'` | The status of the verification process. |
| `strategy` | `email_code` | A string that indicates strategy of the verification. |

> | `attempts` | number | A number that indicates how many attempts have occured in order to verify the domain. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `attempts` | `number` | A number that indicates how many attempts have occurred in order to verify the domain. |

```

| `expiresAt` | `Date` | The expiration date and time of the verification. |

## Methods

### `delete()`

```typescript
function delete: () => Promise<void>;
```

> Delete the organization domain and removes it from the organization.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Deletes the organization domain and removes it from the organization.

```

## `prepareAffiliationVerification()`

```typescript
function prepareAffiliationVerification(params: PrepareAffiliationVerificationParams): Promise<OrganizationDomain>;
```

Begins the verification process of a created organization domain. This is a required step in order to complete the registration of the domain under the organization.

### `PrepareAffiliationVerificationParams`

> <Tables

Reviewer: Markdown table

    headings={["Name", "Type", "Description"]}
    headingsMeta={[{maxWidth:'300px'},{maxWidth: '300px'},{maxWidth: '300px'}]}
    rows={[
        {cells: [<code>affiliationEmailAddress</code>, <code>string</code>, <>An email address that is affiliated with the domain name (e.g. user@example.com). </>]},
    ]}
/>

### Returns

> <Tables

Reviewer: Markdown table

    headings={["Type", "Description"]}
    headingsMeta={[{}, {maxWidth: "300px"}]}
    rows={[

>         {cells: [<code>Promise{"<"}<a href="/docs/references/javascript/organization-domain">OrganizationDomain</a>{">"}</code>, <>This method returns a <code>Promise</code> which resolves with a <code><a href="/docs/references/javascript/organization-domain">OrganizationDomain</a></code> object.</>]}

Reviewer: We don't need to link to Organization Domain docs, because the user is already on this page.

```suggestion
        {cells: [<code>Promise{"<"}OrganizationDomain{">"}</code>, <>This method returns a <code>Promise</code> which resolves with a <codeOrganizationDomain</code> object.</>]}

```

    ]}
/>

## `attemptAffiliationVerification()`

```typescript
function attemptAffiliationVerification(params: AttemptAffiliationVerificationParams): Promise<OrganizationDomain>;
```

Attempts to complete the domain verification process. This is a required step in order to complete the registration of a domain under an organization, as the administrator should be verified as a person who is affiliated with that domain.

> Make sure that a `OrganizationDomain` object already exists before you call this method, by first calling `OrganizationDomain.prepareAffiliationVerification`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Make sure that an `OrganizationDomain` object already exists before you call this method, by first calling `OrganizationDomain.prepareAffiliationVerification`.

```

### `AttemptAffiliationVerificationParams`

> <Tables

Reviewer: Markdown table

---
title: OrganizationDomain
description: The OrganizationDomain object is the model around an organization domain.
---

# `OrganizationDomain`

The `OrganizationDomain` object is the model around an organization domain.

> ## Attributes

Reviewer: Other pages use "Properties" so I will suggest this for consistency.

```suggestion
## Properties

```

| Name | Type | Description |
| --- | --- | --- |
| `id` | `string` | A unique identifier for this organization domain. |

> | `name` | `string` | The name for this organization domain (e.g example.com). |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `name` | `string` | The name for this organization domain (e.g. example.com). |

```

| `organizationId` | `string` | The organization ID of the organization this domain is for. |
| `enrollmentMode` | `'manual_invitation' \| 'automatic_invitation' \| 'automatic_suggestion'` | An [enrollment mode][enrollment-mode-ref] will change how new users join an organization. |

> | `verification` | [`OrganizationDomainVerification`][org-domain-ver-ref] | The object that describes the status of the verification process of domain. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `verification` | [`OrganizationDomainVerification`][org-domain-ver-ref] | The object that describes the status of the verification process of the domain. |

```

| `affiliationEmailAddress` | `string \| null` | The email address that was used to verify this organization domain. |
| `totalPendingInvitations` | `number` | The number of total pending invitations sent to emails that match the domain name. |
| `totalPendingSuggestions` | `number` | The number of total pending suggestions sent to emails that match the domain name. |

> | `createdAt` | `Date` | The date and time the membership was created. |
> | `updatedAt` | `Date` | The date and time the membership was updated. |

Reviewer: Is "membership" correct? Or should it be "domain" because these are properties on the `OrganizationDomain` object?

```suggestion
| `createdAt` | `Date` | The date and time the organization domain was created. |
| `updatedAt` | `Date` | The date and time the organization domain was updated. |

```

### `OrganizationDomainVerification`

| Name | Type | Description |
| --- | --- | --- |
| `status` | `'unverified' \| 'verified'` | The status of the verification process. |
| `strategy` | `'email_code'` | A string that indicates strategy of the verification. |
| `attempts` | `number` | A number that indicates how many attempts have occured in order to verify the domain. |
| `expiresAt` | `Date` | The expiration date and time of the verification. |

## Methods

> ### `delete()`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## `delete()`

```

Deletes the organization domain and removes it from the organization.

```typescript
function delete: () => Promise<void>;
```

## `prepareAffiliationVerification()`

```typescript
function prepareAffiliationVerification(params: PrepareAffiliationVerificationParams): Promise<OrganizationDomain>;
```

Begins the verification process of a created organization domain. This is a required step in order to complete the registration of the domain under the organization.

### `PrepareAffiliationVerificationParams`

| Name | Type | Description |
| --- | --- | --- |
| `affiliationEmailAddress` | `string` | An email address that is affiliated with the domain name (e.g. user@example.com). |

### Returns

| Type | Description |
| --- | --- |

> | <code>Promise\<[OrganizationDomain][org-domain-ref]\></code> | This method returns a <code>Promise</code> which resolves with a <code>[OrganizationDomain][org-domain-ref]</code> object. |

Reviewer: if the user is already on this page, no need to link to a reference - they are already on the reference page.

```suggestion
| `Promise<OrganizationDomain>` | This method returns a `Promise` which resolves with an `OrganizationDomain` object. |

```

## `attemptAffiliationVerification()`

```typescript
function attemptAffiliationVerification(params: AttemptAffiliationVerificationParams): Promise<OrganizationDomain>;
```

Attempts to complete the domain verification process. This is a required step in order to complete the registration of a domain under an organization, as the administrator should be verified as a person who is affiliated with that domain.

Make sure that an `OrganizationDomain` object already exists before you call this method, by first calling `OrganizationDomain.prepareAffiliationVerification`.

### `AttemptAffiliationVerificationParams`

| Name | Type | Description |
| --- | --- | --- |
| `code` | `string` | The one-time code that was sent to the user as part of this verification step. |

### Returns

| Type | Description |
| --- | --- |

> | <code>Promise\<[OrganizationDomain][org-domain-ref]\></code> | This method returns a <code>Promise</code> which resolves with a <code>[OrganizationDomain][org-domain-ref]</code> object. |

Reviewer: if the user is already on this page, no need to link to a reference - they are already on the reference page.

```suggestion
| `Promise<OrganizationDomain>` | This method returns a `Promise` which resolves with an `OrganizationDomain` object. |

```

> [org-domain-ref]: /docs/references/javascript/organization-domain

Reviewer: if the user is already on this page, no need to link to a reference - they are already on the reference page.

```suggestion
```

> [enrollment-mode-ref]: /docs/organizations/verified-domains#enrollment-modes

Reviewer: If we are going to link to this reference, the `manual_invitation` option needs to be added to the [reference page](https://clerk.com/docs/organizations/verified-domains). Because it says its an option here in the table, but the [current reference page](https://clerk.com/docs/organizations/verified-domains) does not list it as an option.

Reviewer: I'd like this to be acknowledged!
